---
description: >-
  Collectives versus Corporations in forming general partnerships to combine
  labor with capital
---

# 2.0 Ideology

At its core a DAO is a group people with a mission and no hierarchal structure.  The initial v1 white paper for the governance proposed can be found at [https://github.com/daohaus/paper](https://github.com/daohaus/paper) but has recently grown to a much larger and complete ecosystem vision that benefits in being reframing inside of this White Book - still referencing ideas found in the original paper such as resource vs constitutional proposals, conflict resolution and scheduling ideas.  Infact it was refreshing to re-read the paper and notice how certain gaps in my knowledge or in the DeFi ecosystem at large have been filled over the years.

Ideally a DAO is different from a CORP in that its shareholder & employee divisions are merged into a single member class -- while in a CORP they exist independently.&#x20;

Labor Unions have attempted to fix the issues between workers and shareholders in an attempt to align the incentives of the company with the well-being of the employees.  In a DAO the labor union IS the company.

DAOs seek to align and overlap these roles. Funds and equity are publicly visible and each member has the ability to suggest how they are used for, both approving and rejecting proposals from other members. Responsibilities are incentivized, and those that enlist can be compensated in underlying ownership of the DAO as compensation.&#x20;

Tokens modeled this way fall outside of a typical security framework as the patterns we put in place more closely resemble that of a general partnership or trust and does not rely on profits "derived from the efforts of others".  The term "utility token" also applies here as each token holder in our ecosystem is allowed access to its underlying assets as defined in each separate operating agreement.
