---
description: >-
  Our DAO definition that combines labor, capital and consumers into a single
  member class more closely associated with a general partnership than with that
  of a corporation.
---

# Đ2.0 Ideology

At its core a DAO is a group people that have replaced the typical hierarchal structure of an organization with an incentive based one for completing its mission.  Ideally being an open system in which people can freely compete to complete tasks with the gatekeeper being based on meritocracy rather than appointed council, although a combination of the two will most likely always coincide as DAOs look to optimize collective decision making wisdom and insight.

Ideally a DAO is different from a CORP in that its shareholder, employee & consumer divisions are merged into a single member class while in a CORP they exist independently.  DAOs seek to align and overlap these roles. Funds and equity are publicly visible and each member has the ability to suggest how they are used for, both approving and rejecting proposals from other members. Responsibilities are incentivized, and those that enlist can be compensated in underlying ownership of the DAO as compensation. \
\
This is similar to [triple bottom line](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triple\_bottom\_line) principals in which you align incentives that do not necessarily need to be opposing and lead to better results for all parties involved.\
\


### **Example**

#### Coke Corp: &#x20;

Shareholders don't care about the working conditions or the ingredients used in the product as long as it adds to their bottom line. Consumers don't have the ability to participate in the company upside purely through purchase participation, and the employees are only incentivized to care about either as long as it keeps them from being disposed of rather than an integral energetic part of the products they create and disperse.

#### Coke DAO:

With each purchase of a can, a consumer is given the opportunity to redeem for .001% of the company.  As a part-owner they are allowed to vote on ingredients and are eligible to be called upon to help in their local canning and distribution facilities like a type of jury duty.

###

### Securities Considerations

Tokens modeled this way fall outside of a typical security framework as the patterns we put in place more closely resemble that of a general partnership or trust and does not rely on profits "derived from the efforts of others".  The term "utility token" also applies here as each token holder in our ecosystem is allowed access to its underlying assets as defined in each separate operating agreement.\
\
That being said, DAOs of all sorts will in practice be a security and only when the community, however the style of DAO we look to push forward will have the framework and foundation to fully involve the entire collective, and if a collective does not treat or utilize the mechanisms as they are intended could consequently easily fall under typical securities requirements and regulations if they behave as such.



### v1.0 Whitepaper

The initial white paper for the governance proposed for Đ1.0 can be found at [https://github.com/daohaus/paper](https://github.com/daohaus/paper) and is still very much intact as a way of managing a residence and plays that single role in this LEGT ecosystem, which has much broader appeal and can be applied to any asset.  Figuratively it could be said that the DAOhaus governance model is an arrow in the quiver of the LEGT ecosystem.
